.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii uacpid.1
.\"
.TH UACPID 1 "2009-Jul-15" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
uacpid \- Userspace Advanced Configuration and Power Interface event daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B uacpid
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B uacpid
is a daemon designed to be run in userspace that will monitor the local system's
.B acpid
socket for hardware events. Since this daemon is run in userspace, event handler processes can utilize the same environment as a normal user.

An example of why you need this: Suppose you want to have a hardware event change the active X displays, like a laptop external monitor function button. Some tools to achieve this display change require the logged in user's DISPLAY and other settings that may be difficult or impossible to gain access to from
.B acpid
scripts.

Another example is media control function buttons, like play/pause or next/previous track for a music player.

.B uacpid
is running as you and is getting the hardware events reported by the system's
.BR acpid .
.B uacpid
can then act on the events on your behalf, with your environment.

.B uacpid
will respond to SIGHUP by reloading the event handlers and reestablishing its connection to the
.B acpid
socket. Changes to the config file will require that
.B uacpid
be restarted, SIGHUP will not reload the config.

Note that having
.B acpid
installed and running is required to use
.BR uacpid .
.SH FILES
A directory structure and default files under
.I $HOME/.uacpid/
will be created the first time the daemon is run.

.I $HOME/.uacpid/uacpid.conf
.RS
Configuration file. The default conf file is documented with comments.
.RE
.IR $HOME/.uacpid/events/ [ event-handler "] ..."
.RS
Event handler files. These are very much like acpid event handler files. An example event handler that matches any event should be here, named
.I anything
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal daemon termination, no error conditions.
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error, terminated abnormally.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP HOME
The HOME environment variable is used to locate or initialize conf and event files (see FILES)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error messages and anything else applicable to the log level in effect will be logged. By default the log file will be created at
.IR $HOME/var/log/uacpid.log .
These settings are also configurable.
.SH BUGS
Probably lots. Please email reports and/or help out!
.SH EXAMPLE
A logical way to start the daemon would be backgrounded in your
.IR $HOME/.xinitrc " or " $HOME/.xsession :

.B uacpid &
.SH AUTHOR
Dino Morelli <dino@ui3.info>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR acpid (8)
